so let's talk phone shall we what place
in your house has the best coverage can
switching hands help you get a better
signal and how can a durian help you
charge your gadget let's find out how to
get the most out of your cell phone
metal filing cabinets and solid
furniture fridges sculptures or other
massive design pieces all get in the way
between you and the phone signal moving
them into corners can work miracles
large house plants are also an obstacle
for good reception there is plenty of
water in them and it eats up the signal
you can type your zip code on a special
reception website to find out where the
cell towers are in your area then you
can simply move to the right side of the
building that's closest to the tower
moving to the upper floors also helps
simply opening the windows can help you
boost reception if yours are coated with
energy-efficient material it's blocking
the signal as well spots by the windows
in general always have better reception
unless that window opens into a brick
wall of the other building of course you
could get technical and buy a cell phone
signal booster or network extender if
everyone around you has good reception
and it's just your problem no take your
gadget to the phone doctor to see if the
internal antenna has been damaged
Danish scientists tested 26 popular
phone models and found out I phones and
most of the others perform better when
held in the right hand Samsung's on the
contrary are more productive in the left
hand your body somehow interferes with
the phone signal and manufacturers
should pay attention to it when
positioning the phone antennas plastic
based smartphones allow radio waves to
pass through with minimal signal loss
they also have some other benefits
plastic gives freedom to phone designers
to experiment with shapes sizes and
colors plastic phones are nearly
impossible to break even if you drop
them they're also lighter and cheaper to
produce what kind of phone do you have
metal plastic glass may be ceramic let
me know in the comments below
you have no or close to no signal at all
at supermarkets
any of them is essentially a warehouse
made of steel and concrete with many
refrigerated areas which means even more
metal even a strong signal can't pass
through all those materials the only way
it gets in there is through frequently
opening doors from a cell tower nearby
concerts sport events festivals parades
and even a busy road in rush hour also
lack mobile reception because of
technical issues when too many phones
are trying to send and receive signals
from nearby cell towers at the same time
they overload the network even if you
turn on maximum screen brightness on a
sunny day you won't be able to see a
thing when your display is in the Sun
it's emitting light and reflecting
sunlight at the same time so it's
ruining the contrast other gadgets like
GPS navigators trade color quality for
better visibility that's why you can see
a clearer picture on them even in direct
sunlight first-generation touchscreen
smartphones needed outside protection
from scratches chips and cracks today
smart screens are strong enough on their
own unless you spend a lot of time at
the beach or drop your phone on concrete
every now and then you are good without
a screen protector clumsy it's not the
amount of megapixels in your phone's
camera but their size that affects image
quality a 12 megapixel cam can take
pictures that put a 48 megapixel into
shame
the surface of your phone camera sensor
has a separate area for each pixel the
more pixels the smaller each of the
areas will be and the lower the image
quality lens quality also matters alive
lens type and quality are also the
reason you don't often look like
yourself in selfies wide-angle lenses
for example make your face and nose look
bigger tell me about it
newer phones with portrait mode selfies
change and beautify your face by default
whoo that's a good thing
hey some of us need more help than
others speaking for myself of course
front-facing cameras were originally
designed for video calling even with all
the progress and improvements
they aren't still nearly as good as
cameras on the back of the phone making
them equally good would boost phone
prices like crazy plus they take up too
much space on your phone it's totally
safe to keep your phone right next to a
credit card your gadget does have a
magnetic field but it's nothing like a
fridge magnet so it won't be magnetized
the card you can't remove phone
batteries anymore for your own good
first of all please to make the gadget
more bulky and less stylish and
appealing second smaller inbuilt
batteries gave more room for cool extra
features they also let manufacturers
experiment with shape and not have to
stick to rectangular phones finally they
made waterproof phones possible because
the crucial parts of your phone are
safely sealed if you have an original
charging device you can safely use your
phone while it's plugged in it can only
give you a shot if something's wrong
with the chargers insulation and that
happens to fake gadgets it's totally
normal for your phone to warm up during
charging because heat energy is
transferring from the charger to the
phone if the heat is becoming too
extreme though try taking off the phone
cover stop any downloads in progress and
background running apps or put your
phone into airplane mode 4G doesn't use
more data than 3G
it downloads things way faster but uses
the same amount of data 3G would this
can make you want to use more data but
that's a psychological not a technical
factor switching the phone off and then
on again to save some power isn't the
best idea as the whole on and off
process eats up a lot of battery and
you're likely to turn it back on to a
blank screen instead switch to airplane
mode that will disable Wi-Fi Bluetooth
and the constant searching for signal
and you should be good for a while
longer
manufacturers tried solving the blue
light problem with a warm toned night
mode researchers argue that yellowish
light can be even worse as it makes your
brain think it's daytime
so the best you can do is limit the time
you spend looking at the phone screen
before bed no matter what
color it is you're more likely to run
out of battery in no time in cold
weather
this happens because charging relies on
chemical reactions your phone battery is
packed with ions that keep traveling
from one pole to another cold weather
stops or slows them down and the battery
thinks they left while it's still full
of them you don't really need a phone
with more RAM
unless you're constantly working in four
to five apps at the same time an average
Ram is perfectly compatible with the
latest operating systems so your phone
will be running just fast enough and you
don't have to pay crazy money for extra
memory researchers from the University
of Sydney found out that durian a big
smelly fruit has special powers of
storing huge amounts of energy its flesh
can be transformed into a super
capacitor to provide you with cheap
energy and charge your gadget at
lightning speed now if they can just do
something about the smell
phones are getting more and more
expensive with every new model for
several reasons new and more complex
features means more costs on research
and development and more expensive new
materials as there are more phone
manufacturers now than at the start of
the cellphone era they have to compete
for rare materials and components and
their prices rise of course they do